hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewsday.com I'm your host Dylan
Grabowski in this episode of the smart
economy podcast I chat with Willie
ogirzali the head of decentralization at
Fox Foundation the fox Foundation is a
not-for-profit organization dedicated to
supporting the shapeshift Dao and
achieving full decentralization
shapeshift is a non-custodial exchange
that launched in July 2014 and began to
de-corporatize in July of
2021. now the Dex is developed and
maintained by a decentralized community
of Builders from across the globe in
this conversation Willie and I talk
about his first startup and how that par
laid into getting Aqua hired by the then
centralized shapeshift what it was like
working through a bear Market while
shapeshift was also facing an
existential and philosophical dilemma
how D5 protocols offered a glimmer of
hope for the platform the announcement
of and subsequent shutdown of the
shapeshift corporate structure how the
new shapeshift dial operates fostering a
community among decentralized Builders
and much more just a reminder nothing
said on this podcast is a solicitation
to buy or sell any tokens that nothing
should be taken as Financial advice and
that the host or guests May hold tokens
discussed in any given episode with that
said I really enjoyed chatting with
Willie and I hope you enjoy the
conversation too
[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today I'm joined by
Willie ogresoli the head of
decentralization for the fox Foundation
how are you doing today Willie is today
the best day ever GM Dylan you guessed
it today is the best day ever how are
you doing I'm doing awesome actually the
first time we hung out at an event and
we shared the same house for the night
the next morning you woke up and said
Jam to everyone in person and I realized
that was the first person first time I'd
ever heard someone say GM in real life
so it's pretty awesome now I have my
girlfriend saying Jam to me every day so
pretty psyched about that oh well done
yes thank you sir so you recently
relocated out back from Colorado to
Texas where you're from so I kind of
want to start off this conversation and
before we jump into the crypto stuff I
think you have a really cool background
in founding a company and then exiting
so could you just share a little blurb
about what you were doing with just
legal how you started that and what that
process was like when you were able to
leave it behind and go on to greener
pastures happy to yeah and it's a
perfect segue into my my life in crypto
so just legal was my first startup and
when I started it it was a class project
actually and we were taking I was at the
University of Colorado in Boulder and we
were taking entrepreneurship course and
as part of the class we had to create a
startup concept throughout the whole
semester so the original idea we had was
like video chatting with lawyers I was
also taking a business law class at the
time had a simple question Googled it
couldn't find an answer Google video
chat with the lawyer and couldn't find
anything and I was I was surprised it
didn't exist at the time so we went down
that path as you know initially as as
students and then I decided to continue
working on it after that semester worked
on it through the next summer and then
for one more semester and then we
actually ended up dropping out with one
semester left to focus on the startup
because things were going well at that
point and we had learned a lot we still
had a lot to learn of course but we went
from like really knowing nothing about
starting a company to getting very
excited very passionate seeing a very
real opportunity that we thought we
could solve and um building a team and
building a solution for it so just legal
when we really started getting traction
we were just building the the initial
MVP website no plans to actually have it
launched yet but it was live we didn't
have any staging server and as soon as
we added this scheduling widget where
you could actually schedule an
appointment we didn't have any lawyers
signed up yet it was just like the form
to fill out and select a time we started
getting bookings from people who are
looking for a lawyer and uh that was
kind of our first bit of traction it
showed us really the scheduling was what
was valuable and um yeah without going
too into the weed we've continued
building for years and ultimately that
led to an acquisition in 2017. it wasn't
a huge acquisition we had raised money
almost a million dollars we're actually
halfway in the middle of a fundraising
round when we got hit with a lawsuit and
only got too too deep into the details
there but basically we realized that the
right thing to do was to basically
pursue this acquisition interest that we
had and return value to the investors
which we did and then it was a small win
for the team and throughout the course
of 2017 as we're going down this
acquisition path I also got into crypto
so we had moved back to Austin for an
accelerator program I sold my house in
Colorado I finally had some money to
invest because before I had been putting
everything I could into the startup and
uh yeah that was right at the beginning
of the 2017 Bull Run I got very hooked
on crypto and um by the end of the year
when we finally completed the
acquisition and sold just legal that
same month we started bid fracture I
started bit Frack with some other
friends that I had met through the
accelerator program and bid fract was
the the first tool where you could trade
Bitcoin for multiple cryptos at once it
was built on top of shapeshift so before
bit for active is like you could trade
one asset for another at a time after
bit break you could trade Bitcoin for
all the assets that shape has supported
so like 65 Assets in a single
transaction that was pretty exciting
because after going from this first
journey of like it was five years it was
a huge uphill battle to build this SAS
enabled legal Marketplace like we're
really trying to disrupt legal industry
and we were you know 21 year old kids
college dropouts who were starting a
company for their for a first time and
then we took all those learnings and we
started bit fracked and bit fracked was
an amazing journey and it was six months
from like having the idea and starting
it to acquisition by shape shift and
just an amazing roller coaster in
between just like the show Silicon
Valley basically and uh yeah shapeshift
acquired it fract in June 2018 and I
moved back to Colorado to work out of
the shape shifts headquarters and then
yeah that brings us to now which it's
almost it's like four and a half years
later and still contributing to
shapeshift but now working for the fox
foundation and just a Community member
for shapeshift now awesome really cool
Venture you've gone on we use some of
our validator node income for validating
the Neo Network to distribute back into
folks who are developing dapps and
developing just anything that touches
the network and one of the teams that we
distributed a micro Grant to is actually
based out of CU Boulder and they're part
of the entrepreneur program to or part
of an entrepreneur class I'm not sure if
uh you were part of the program or not
but before we delve a little further
into what you did and and where you're
at now what's like some advice you would
give to a college student who is
balancing their workload but also going
deep into the crypto dgen rabbit hole
and trying to build a product a solution
or adapt and this kind of like
blossoming industry um manage probably
some may not be the best advice but I
would say drop out it worked it worked
out for me and especially in this day
and age like if you're already going
down the rabbit hole unless like what
you want to do requires a degree unless
you want to be a doctor or a lawyer or
something like that I think there's so
much opportunity right now in web 3 to
learn and to get paid to learn and you
can always go back to school so that was
actually the agreement I had with my
parents I really didn't want me to drop
out and I was like well if I don't drop
out and I miss the opportunity to pursue
this dream that we have and somebody
else goes to build this because I know
someone else is going to build this if
we don't then I'm going to regret it for
the rest of my life basically and I can
always go back to school school always
be there but like here's our opportunity
to build this and to change the world so
the agreement was that if the startup
failed I would go back to school and
because you know it wasn't a huge
success we didn't technically fail so I
know I haven't had to go back and I have
zero regrets because every day in web 3
that you're contributing you're learning
so much and they don't teach this stuff
in school if web3 is what you're
passionate about it's gonna be really
hard to get current up to State
education at a university so you can
save a lot of money and you can still
actually earn money you can learn a lot
you can start building that Network
which is so critical especially in the
web 3 world so yeah my recommendation
will be to drop out and join a desk
awesome and then in a Shameless plug for
the shapeshift dial to look into I love
that our Genesis stories into the crypto
space starts with shapeshift I bought my
first Neo on the old shapeshift well
before kyc implementation so is that
like the platform that you were using
that you built it fract on top of yes
shaped up was also one of the first
crypto companies I was exposed to I
remember a friend who was telling me
about crypto showed me the shape shift
app and it was like you gotta download
this app and I yeah I loved it
immediately and then I spent a lot of
2017. I wasted a lot of time trading and
I thought it was a bull run so like
everyone thought they were genius I'm
like oh my gosh number keeps going up
and if you ever use coin capsfolio
feature they have the ability to like
build the portfolio like you know I have
X Bitcoin x ethereum x Doge and then
track it over time and um I realized at
the end of 2017 that my original
portfolio to my original positions
actually outperformed my latest
portfolio so all the trades that I had
made even more money I'd been putting
into crypto and stuff all that time was
wasted and I would have just done better
if I had just sat on my hands and done
nothing all those nights staring at
charts were for nothing so that was a a
big Learning lesson I had a good friend
who was my co-founder at shapeshift who
I met at CU Boulder he had always
advocated for just a diversified
portfolio dollar cast averaging more
like the investor approach than just a
Trader approach and that was a big
inspiration for bid fract and we
basically he had built this tool called
Albatross where you could just really
easily design a portfolio and you could
do it by like whatever custom
percentages or weighted by market cap he
was using it because he was getting a
lot of questions from Friends of like
what crypto should I buy and instead of
just recommending one or going into the
wi leads his advice was just you know by
a weighted average top 10 market cap
portfolio but there was no easy way to
do that so basically he had built this
cool tool and we realized that if we
just built on top of shapeshifts API we
could just add an exchange button right
there and let people buy that portfolio
and nothing like that existed at the
time and all the tools were there so it
was a really awesome experience and we
took the lean approach and I remember we
built without raising any money we never
raised any money for bid for activated
with a small team of friends who are all
experienced with startups we all had a
kind of our first startup experience
under our build we're looking for the
next opportunity had this idea it was
end of 2017 so crypto was super hot and
we're like this needs to exist
um and like you mentioned it was pre-kyc
so it was the good old days we built the
landing page for it before we even built
it back in and we just put a uh you know
sign up for beta instead of an exchange
button and tweeted it out we actually
went down to a conference that
shapeshift was app we walked through the
booth and we showed it to them and we're
like hey look you know we love you guys
check out what we built and they were
super excited about it through that I
think word got back to Eric and Eric
um then tweeted us out pretty much at
that point things started going bonkers
the next day like that's tweet started
going pretty viral the next day
bitcoin.com put us on their home page
and people started making all these
videos and different languages about
shapeshift for about uh bit fracked and
then yeah a month after putting out the
landing page we launched our MVP because
it was so easy to build on top of
shapeshifts API they really did all the
hard work but safety five had a super
cool program where they would pay
basically 50 of the revenue that they
generated to Partners to other
interfaces or integrators that drove
volume to shapeshift which is awesome so
we were able to make bid for ACT free
public good didn't cost any extra to use
it and we're generating revenues on day
one that the app went live so like it
was an amazing experience coming from
like this five-year uphill battle going
to bid fract um which was just it worked
out so much smoother and it was like we
were having The Best Day Ever every day
I know we were in a co-working space and
I think we were like we may have
bothered some of the other teams working
around us because like every day we're
like high-fiving likes Let's Go Ride
Scooters because like we're just so
hyped up because an amazing connection
just happened though like we never could
have imagined like it was really just an
amazing startup journey and yeah learned
quite a bit from that as well and it was
cool to see kind of both sides like an
uphill battle and then what it feels
like to really just have product Market
fit um and something that people really
love on day one yeah that's amazing and
was this like an auto rebalancing tool
or was it just simply like I have 0.5
Bitcoin and I want to buy a third eth a
third Doge and like a third Bitcoin it
was the latter rebalancing is where
we're gonna go next and um so we have
this concept of biffracked labs we never
got to that but um I think one of the
things that people really loved about
bitrack was the UI where it was the like
the Pink Floyd logo where you have a
beam of light coming in and that was
Bitcoin and then you have a rainbow
coming out and the rainbow was color
coded to all the coins that you were
purchasing and you could actually not
only Could you type in a percent and be
like oh I want 25 ethereum and 15 Doge
you could actually click and drag the uh
bars of the rainbow as well well so it
was really beautiful kind of unique UI
and I think that was another reason that
people really just love it and got
excited about it because it wasn't just
a boring spreadsheet looking app yeah
totally cool amazing that you guys got
acquired in like six months too when
shapeshift saw well then shapeshift the
corporate shape shift when they saw
something they wanted they went after it
so you guys were talking about Best Day
Ever moments when you were down in Texas
in your co-working space and knowing
annoying your co-workers and then you
guys get Acquired and and presumably
move back up to Colorado so that you
could work at shapeshift headquarters
this has got to be around the end of the
2017 bowl and when 2018 came around and
I think a lot of people listening right
now especially New Market entrants who
are the class of 2020 2021 they might be
able to relate with this a little bit
when you guys moved up uh here it was it
was 2018 and things were starting to get
dire and Bleak let alone like the kyc
issues that shapeshift was going to have
to go through later on that year and
into 2019 so when you moved up here what
was kind of like the focus on your
day-to-day what did your new role entail
when you were at shapeshift HQ and also
as kind of like the dread was setting in
what was the vibe like at the office
yeah this is it's really a great
question really interesting story so our
first day at shapeshift was the
allflucks it was actually I guess like a
couple days before we actually started
but we were able to join the company's
all Fox they invited us to join uh this
was the all Fox was a meeting that
shape-shift did every month now we do it
every two months as a dow and this all
Fox was the all Fox where Eric told the
entire company that we were going to
have to implement kyc so we were so
excited we love shapeshift shape shift
pre-kyc was the most popular way to
trade crypto non-custodially by far it
was very profitable you know the future
looked so bright part of the reason that
bit fract team was brought in was It was
kind of both an acquisition but really
an aqua hire and they wanted to bring in
the team to help build what became the
new version of shapeshift but at the
time was called Axiom but we never
released it as Axiom but it was
basically if you ever used
beta.shapef.com similar to it had a lot
of the same features as
app.shapefruit.com but it was our
centralized version and you could
connect multiple wallets initially keep
the hardware wallet buy sell trade view
your whole portfolio it was basically
like taking all these pieces that
shape-shift had built the market
exchange the price data from coin cap PP
Hardware wallet and marrying it all into
one unified platform so um the bifurc
team was brought in to focus on that
because at shaped up at the time every
all the other team members were focused
on other efforts and we had they had
just come to the conclusion that they
were going to have to implement kyc in
order to continue operating the United
States and that was the worst day ever I
remember everybody was devastated Eric
was not happy about it nobody at the
company wanted to do this but we had
basically after millions of dollars of
legal bills come to the conclusion that
we had no other choice and we had to do
it in six months and so we had to like
rebuild all of the app to now work with
accounts um it was so much simpler
before it made the user experience worse
it was a ton of overhead and then we
also had to like in the company create
these compliance departments and new
roles and stuff it was a huge Challenge
and not only did it add a lot of expense
to shapeshift and make the app worse but
like it really destroyed our trading
business and I remember like when we
announced this to the world crypto
Twitter was pissed people were like Fu
you've sold out to the Devils you guys
should have just shut down like we're
never using it again it was really it
was really tough and yeah the over the
next years like we've really struggled I
think we did everything we could to
maintain and attract new users but it
was tricky and a lot of our a lot of
competitors that had popped up and kind
of copied the shapeshift model and were
based outside of the United States were
much slower to implement kyc so we lost
a lot of our users and Partnerships to
these competitors then fast forward yeah
so I could stop there but I'll just say
yeah I was in 2020 we saw the
proliferation of dexes we saw uniswap
and that was super inspiring basically
like in 2018 it was not feasible for
shapeshift to just rip out or centralize
exchange and plug in dex's dexes were
not feasible yet there was Atomic swaps
but they didn't really have liquidity
certainly not enough liquidity to
actually handle the volume that
shapeshift was seeing so 2020 it finally
had become feasible and we realized that
unisop was achieving the original
shapeshift Vision better than we were
and not requiring users to give up their
personal private data so we embraced
that change and we integrated 0x to
aggregate all the dexes January 2021 and
that was pretty cool because it was like
crypto Twitter was stoked they're like
shape shifts back we love you guys I
think that was the exact opposite yeah I
mean I remember during that bear time I
was one of the five percent that
remained and I kyc'd and that's how I
was purchasing most of my my Bitcoin
during that time was I think it was
wired that you guys were were partnered
with rip wire R.I.P yeah uh sad to hear
um so it's it's really cool that these
Dex protocols kind of enabled shapeshift
to like Rise From the Ashes Like a
Phoenix but before we go into that since
you're like an OG and you've basically
been building in this space for five
five and a half years I'm just curious
to hear how do you think the industry
has played out like when you first got
psyched on building bit fract and all
the cool things that was going on with
crypto back then what did you think 2023
January 2023 would look like what kind
of tools would be here and do you think
that the industries kept up with what
you where you thought we were going to
go are you surprised by anything do you
think that something's missing uh love
that question I will preface this by
saying I'm a permeable and I'm an
optimist as you can as you as you know
so I had pretty high hopes for crypto
and I was really inspired what really
got me I think excited about crypto and
finally got me to take the plunge was
hearing about ethereum that was the
first crypto I bought and this idea of
this like Global dap store where you
could have completely decentralized
applications that anyone could launch
anyone could access and then hearing
like I'm an altcoin Maximus I have way
too many coins my wallet often breaks
when I plug it into interfaces because
they can't handle more than 100 tokens
in your wallet I love these visions and
these altcoins and like I hear it I'm
like this makes so much sense let's
centralize all the things and so yeah I
think I I kind of was sold on the idea
that uh by a lot of these icos and
altcoins that they were going to be able
to disrupt the status quo and that this
new web 3 world was in so many ways
better it was going to take us some time
to get there but we would get there I
still think we're gonna get there I
still have no doubt that we're gonna get
there I have complete conviction it's
just taking long longer than I
anticipated or would have hoped I do
think I always expect kind of Finance to
be the initial beachhead market and use
case and I think that continues to be
the case but we are starting to see a
lot more Innovation a lot more use cases
so yeah you know we have made quite a
bit of progress when I look back at
where things were in 2017 we have come
such a long way in fact we're like
almost at the point where we can handle
onboarding the masses and we can
actually handle that scale so like
that's huge and we need we need to be
there we need to get there and I have no
doubt that we are going to get there and
in fact I'm confident that when the next
bull market comes all the builders are
going to wish we had more time during
this bear Market to prepare because this
next one like this could be when we
start to see the masses really trying to
come on board to crypto we're close to
being ready but we're not quite there
yet so if the bull market started
tomorrow I would be scrambling totally
so I think uh what you just talked about
is kind of like an apt metaphor for what
happened with shapeshift I mean the way
that I understood how 2017 shapeshift
worked is that there were wallets that
shapeshift managed that people could
trade between and then in January 2021
when all these D5 protocols were started
to be implemented on the back end you
now had like a decentralized protocol
like bancorps or uniswap or something
like this that was handling all the
assets on behalf of users Who provided
liquidity so you said that that response
from the end user was like amazing they
were like yeah shape shifts back we love
you guys and during the kyc days you
know the bad kyc days customers dropped
by 95 so January 2021 you implement all
these D5 protocols what was the surge in
user activity like were you starting to
feel those days like in 2017 when you
first started your second startup were
you starting to see like this parabolic
growth or was it like slow was it a
slingshot what was that like yes it was
um definitely
uh cyclical wavy uh certainly not
parabolic growth but I would say like as
general Trends we'd kind of been
bleeding users from 2018 through the
beginning of 2021 and as soon as we made
that announcement do we hit an
inflection point and we started growing
again up to right when we announced the
launch the Dow we had 150 000 monthly
active users and we did over 50 million
in trade volume which is still far from
like the the billion dollars in monthly
trade volume that shapeshifted at its
peak but was a lot higher than I think
at one point it had dropped down to
single digit Millions per month
basically so and then I think since then
we've kind of had a similar similar
experience since launching the Dow where
we basically spent the first year of the
Dow rebuilding the existing shapeshift
app as a new open source app architected
for complete decentralization but not
really adding a lot of features we were
focused on just rebuilding and getting
to parity and I think we were bleeding
users slowly as the industry evolved
around us and we were late to integrate
cheaper EVMS and later twos or features
like wallet connect to a allow users to
go connect to other dapps so I think
that played a big part in US slowly
losing users and it feels like we've
kind of bottomed out now we've migrated
everyone over to the new apps and now
we're finally focused on actually adding
new interesting stuff catching up on
some of these core features that we're
missing out on and seeing growth once
again so hopefully this is the double
bottom and we're ready to bounce back
yeah so when in January 21 when these
protocols were being enacted were you
guys already thinking like Hey we're
gonna go completely decentralized I know
as mentioned later that summer so was it
one of these deals where like in January
21 D5 Protocols are implemented and
you're like all right let's get rid of
all the OSHA posters and get rid of all
this government double think mind speak
that we have to have in our office or
was this something that you guys started
thinking about immediately in January
2021 and then it just snowballed so
quick that by the summer you're like
okay we're gonna go completely
decentralized and and replace the
corporation structure with the Dow it's
a great question Eric and John I think
would be the ones who who really know
because I didn't hear about the Dow
until May and so January I don't think
that anyone was thinking Dao at all yet
I know we were having some conversations
and as product manager one of my
responsibilities and goals for that year
was to increase Fox utility we had this
token out there and it just actually
made sense because we were moving away
from our past model of um basically
having these Fox tokens waive the fees
on trades well now that we're
integrating this dexas and we're not
putting fees on trades we need to kind
of reimagine Fox's utility and um I've
been seeing the proliferation of dows I
have been contributing to giveth and
seeing firsthand like oh my gosh these
jobs are amazing you can just have a
community of people all around the world
come together and ship beautiful
software without any legal entity like
this is amazing this is magical and then
we saw all these like a lot of the most
successful D5 Protocols of 2021 were
structured as Dallas but we were a
centralized organization so I remember
we were having these conversations and I
was like I didn't think it was possible
really for shapeshift to transition into
a Dow at the time so I'm like how can we
at least give the community more
ownership give them more power to
influence the roadmap and everything
like how can we get Fox as close to a
governance token as we can I think in
April let me implement it when we
integrated Thor chain that was another
key piece because before third chain
there wasn't no way to trade cross chain
and Bitcoin underneath have always been
shapeshifts the most popular pairs for
trading so we still had the centralized
exchange to power cross-chain trades
until the day that Thor chain launched
main net in April we launched an
interface of Thor chain we finally shut
down the shapeshift trading desk and we
stopped KY seeing users and at that
point I think that's probably when the
kind of light bulb went off and Eric and
John's head and they realized like okay
we're out of the regulated business now
we don't need this whole compliance
Department we don't need the kyc users
anymore in fact like we don't really
need illegal entity like at this point
we're just an interface between users
and their their keys we're not custodial
and these decentralized protocols and I
think that's the point when I think they
realize like the best way to achieve
shape this Vision if we want to be the
ultimate interface
the ultimate interface shouldn't be
owned by shapeshift it should be owned
by our users by the community and it
should be fully open source and fully
decentralized itself and for it to be
fully decentralized and owned by the
users like we need to remove shapeshift
entity from the equation
and so yeah when I remember when they
told me that we were going to to become
a dow I jumped out of my chair and
screamed with excitement I was like I
was so excited another best day ever it
was pretty exciting and then we launched
it July 14th and that's when we started
the six month transition to basically
wind down shapeshift centralized
operations and do you think that the
pandemic and the quarantines and the
shutdowns did that like expedite the
process did that plan to seed how did
that kind of like fit into the whole
decorporatization structure great
question I would definitely say the
pandemic was a catalyst and expedited
that transition we were already all
working from home and I remember before
that shapeshift really wanted employees
to all be together in the same office it
felt pretty strongly about them so it
wasn't until the pandemic where we were
forced to all go work from home that we
actually saw okay this can work so I
think that was a critical piece cool and
so now you're head of decentralization
at Fox Foundation uh you're a member of
of the shape shift Dao Your Community
member so what does your role look like
now now that you're not a product
manager at this Central Corporation
anymore and what does that look like now
as a as a dow member and and the work
that you do at the fox Foundation very
interesting unique role unlike anything
I've ever done before but I really like
it
um I do still get to interact with the
product team a lot I go to their
stand-ups I'm kind of like an on-call
product manager if they ever need
someone to come step in and help out
with stuff but my day-to-day role at the
foundation my core responsibility and
Mission over there is to support the Dow
in achieving full decentralization so
things like this month we're handing
over a bunch of accounts that the
foundation has been administering web 2
accounts like Twitter over to the uh to
a group of work extreme leaders who have
tenure of over one year and this is just
another step forward in our Progressive
decentralization a big milestone we hit
last year was actually completing on the
Dow is mostly responsible for getting
the new app to parity so basically we
migrated all the users from the the
Legacy centralized shapeshift apps over
this new app and then we Sunset all the
Legacy centralized infrastructure so
that was a huge milestone and the
foundation's mission
so these days yeah my role basically
like my core responsibility is looking
at all the remaining responsibilities of
the foundation the things that require a
legal entity that the foundation is
currently handling and just going
through one by one and figuring out how
can we transition these to the community
and some of these things are not
possible so like managing the apps in
the App Store it's another
responsibility of the foundation we
don't really have a clear path yet for
how we can transition that to the
community and make it and maintain uh
sufficient decentralization because the
apps stores require legal entities and
there's no businesses I know of yet that
will manage it on behalf of a dow so
still TBD how some of these things will
be figured out and we're hoping that we
don't have to necessarily build all the
solutions for it in our spare time and
we're not focused on decentralizing
these responsibilities really just
supporting the Dow in any way I can so
whether that's facilitating
conversations or Community calls are
really encouraging people to come
participate in governance just helping
out wherever I can it's what I love to
do and so I just get pinged all day all
along with random request and pretty
much always say yes I don't know if I
should put that out there but a lot of
my day-to-day is just supporting Dao
because ultimately in order for the
foundation to be able to achieve our
mission we also need the Dow itself to
be healthy so when it comes to Dao's
decentralized autonomous organization
it's people who choose to agglomerate
and aggregate according to a mission
that they buy into and they want to be a
part of but we're still in this like
unique weird area in 2023 where just
legal structures don't quite know how to
grok what a Dao is and maybe it's
impossible for a dow to get a bank
account without like a centralized
entity acting on behalf of that Dao so
is that basically what the fox
Foundation serves as is the intermediary
between the Dao and like existing legal
Frameworks for things like bank accounts
or phone numbers or hiring lawyers or
whatever it might be yes and no it's a
to your point right now there's a lot of
things to doubt without a legal entity
can't do or actually I would say there's
a couple things that endow with that
illegal entity can't do you can't sign
contracts or enforce contracts and you
can't have a bank account and that's
basically it obviously a lot stems from
that but those are the two things you
can't do on the flip side endowed out
are we going to see there's infinite
things that you can do that are
centralized legal entity cannot do so
for some doubts like shapeshift we've
decided that that trade-off is worth it
and we prefer to give up the ability to
sign contracts and have make accounts in
order to be able to do all this amazing
stuff and push the boundaries the
foundation it's not meant to just be
like the shell or the legal entity for
the Dow in fact like we do try to keep
them separate they are separate and that
the foundation has no control over the
shape-shift Dao shapeshift dial has no
control over the foundation they're both
independent entities and the
foundation's mission is just to support
the shapeshift down achieving full
destroyalization and the foundation does
plan to dissolve once it has achieved
its Mission and has no reason to to
exist anymore so so basically because
shapeshift was a centralized
organization when it shut down it wasn't
able to transition everything over to
the Dow so things like trademarks but
also the servers that shape Jeff was
hosting we also have a database of all
the users who created a wallet on
shapeshift with an email and password
those are things that we can't just like
publish publicly because then they could
get these encrypted seed phrases could
get brute forced but right now like
we're maintaining the database so that
if you go to shapeshift you can still
log into your wallet and are planning to
do that for for years and also emailing
all the users and saying hey come back
up your your wallet because again like
with gdpr rules and stuff there's not a
way for a dow to manage a huge email
list at least without individuals being
potentially liable for these huge gdpr
fines so those are some examples of what
the foundation does but certainly like
we tried to not take on more
responsibility and we can avoid it so
like for things like we're not just
paying a bunch of whenever the Dow needs
to pay a bill in Fiat we really
encourage the work streams or the
contributors to figure out alternative
means to do that unfortunately there's
all these Cool Tools popping up that
enable that now enable contributors to
go from crypto to pay Fiat bills with
debit cards I think it works well
because we really eventually we do want
to go away we're trying to not inherit
more responsibility if we can avoid it
so we are somewhat in some cases there
as a last resort we do want to support
the Dow and make sure that it can do the
things it needs to do but we also really
focus on maintaining this separation and
not taking on additional responsibility
if there's an alternative mean and the
Dow can do it without us yeah that's
really cool to learn about the
differentiation between Fox foundation
and the shapeshift dial prior to this
conversation I wasn't too uh in the know
of of how the two are separated and I
really want to go into like the way that
the platform is being developed through
these work streams but you have to pay
engineers and developers to contribute
because everybody's time is valuable
especially people with knowledge and
skill sets to help build out this Vision
so how is the Dow funded is this through
like and an initial lump sum from
shapeshift the former corporate
structure is this through revenue and
the funding gets stronger and stronger
as we see growth of the platform what's
kind of like the funding situation like
yes so when shapeshift dial First
launched July 14th it was a shape-shift
the centralized entity transferred with
240 million Fox tokens to the Dow
because at the time there's a total
supply of 1 billion and less than one
percent of that had actually been given
out to users so shapeshift still had
over 99 of the token Supply and it gave
over about a quarter of it to the shape
shift down it also didn't air drop of
340 million Fox tokens to about a
Million past users and community members
any of the airdrops that weren't claimed
after I think it was three months maybe
six months those got returned to the Dow
treasury that was initially all that was
in the treasury was just Fox tokens and
initially contributors were getting paid
in Fox tokens there was significant
liquidity in order for them to created
if they needed to and then we
transitioned once we started getting
some stable coins into the treasury we
transitioned to paying stable coins by
default but any contributor can opt in
to get a whatever percent of their
salary they liked in Fox there's now
actually you can get a bonus if you opt
into getting paid in Fox and locking
your Fox so this is pretty cool shout
out to heavy Finance if any dials are
looking to extend their runway in the
bear market and also come with a
creative way to actually give a bonus to
contributors who get paid a native token
but not a bonus that they can just dump
immediately but a bonus based on how
long they lock it hege is a perfect
solution for that and we give
contributors a bonus of five to thirty
percent if they lock up their Fox for 3
to 18 months so uh the the revenues came
from a variety of different Avenues we
also established the community elected a
treasury management and diversification
committee that was focused on
diversifying the treasury in ways that
wouldn't cause a negative price impact
to Fox and the yeah we've generated
millions of dollars of Revenue through
2021 and where our goal is to get to 10
million dollars of stable coins before
the bear Market hit we're pretty sure
that a bear Market was going to come at
some point we had the feeling would be
around June 22 and of course it ended up
coming a little bit earlier so um we got
to about 7 million in Stables by April
or so and then when the bear Market hit
and um still have a little bit over 2
million of stables currently we've cut
down our expenses quite a bit during the
bear market and this is really
interesting to see all these work
streams who basically had a kind of
autonomy there were sub-dials who had
economy over their own budget basically
coordinate and make their own decisions
to to optimize their budgets before the
community came in and passed proposals
to do it for them so are the Dow
treasury managers are they like elected
in is it Fox token holders who get to
participate in governance what does that
look like so yes any box token holder
can participate in governance we also
give Fox voting power for Fox on polygon
or on gnosis chain or fox in a liquidity
pool or stake in the farm or foxy so we
really part of our governance process
stipulates that we will do our best to
give voting power to Fox wherever it's
feasible
also anybody who has 100 or more facts
can submit a proposal and fox token
holders can vote on them it's gasless
you're just signing a message using
snapshot Fox token holders can actually
execute they can include transactions in
a proposal and execute those
transactions without any multi-state we
also have a multi-sig that is elected by
the community that has the ability to
execute transactions more rapidly
because going through that whole
proposal process really takes like over
two weeks to to go from like idea to
actually X being able to execute the
transactions whereas the multi-sig can
execute any transaction as long as a
community has consented it's committed
to not executing any transactions if the
community has not given consent to and
ultimately it's up to the community to
decide when they're ready to remove that
multi-sig yeah and I also want to show
not the price but the really cool
airdrop of fox I was it it was then the
largest airdrop distribution does fox
still hold that that reigning title it's
a good question at the time I think the
value of their airdrop was like a little
bit over 100 million and then of course
right afterwards it pumped and was even
higher definitely I am not aware of a
airdrop that was as large in terms of
breadth but I'm not sure in terms of the
value of the airdrop I wouldn't be
surprised if there were airdrops that
were more valuable yeah the breadth is
is really what's amazing though because
to distribute the tokens to a million
different users and wallets really just
highlights the reach that the former
pre-kyc shapeshift decks had something I
really want to pull your brain on and
just kind of like eli5 with a rebasing
token is users can essentially stake
their Fox for a new token called Fox e
so can you just share like eli5 what's a
rebasing token and how does foxy help
further support for the shapeshift
platform so a rebasing token is simply a
token his balance can change change
without any incoming or outcoming
transactions another popular example is
ampliforth with both ample fourth and
Foxy there's different rules around
rebasing
um of course is another very popular
rebasing token but what they all have in
common is that at some point the
balances will get updated proportionally
for all the different holders of the
token and it can either be rebased up or
rebased down in the case of Foxy it only
rebases up so foxy is backed one to one
with Fox tokens so to Mint foxy you
deposit Fox and two when you burn foxy
you get your Fox back and it rebases
once per week and it rebases when we
anyone can add rewards add Fox rewards
to this contract so um basically it's
the Dial's kind of primary method of
being able to share value it creates and
captures with token holders and it's
very similar like to X Sushi where you
stake Sushi you get X Sushi they're
still they're figuring out their new
tokenomics so basically like Val as
value Cruise the protocol that accrues
to X Sushi holders but the really cool
thing about Foxy is that the tokens that
are staked in the contract aren't just
sitting there idly so the fox State and
Foxy actually gets deployed to the
Tokamak reactor I won't go too deep into
the tokomak protocol but basically if
you deposit Fox into the Toca Mac
reactor you earn toke tokens
with foxy those tokens are then
converted into Fox to then generate kind
of a baseline yield for foxy and then
furthermore those Fox tokens get
deployed to liquidity pools so by
staking Fox for foxy you're still
helping to further box liquidity you're
earning you're able to earn yield from
not inflation but actually revenue is
generated by the Dow and then also you
get a baseline yield which is currently
from Tokamak but we also have the
ability to change that to a different
strategy basically so like I like to
think of it as a really nice evolution
of the traditional yield bearing or
really staking reward contracts of it
that a dow uses to Share value with its
token holders because not only do you
get the value that the protocol
generates but you can get some baseline
yield which should make Foxy the
ultimate way to stake Fox single-sidedly
yeah very cool so basically foxy is for
all intents and purposes like a bet that
a Dao Community member or Fox token
holder can make on the success of the
Dow so what are some of the things and
governance proposals and in governance
processes that token holders can vote on
and I'm also curious to learn a little
bit more what do you do when maybe
workstream leaders are at odds against
what community members say they want to
see happen next if the community wants
prototype a implemented but work stream
leaders are like we need to do prototype
B but there's differences in opinions
between token holders and voters and
workstream leaders how does that get
resolved man we usually just have like
mud wrestling competitions
oh man so um there are a couple
questions there first is what can Fox
token holders vote on this is actually a
really kind of interesting question
because at its core really like when we
imagine the multi-stig going away really
the token holders having complete
control what token holders really can
control is whatever the Dow treasury can
control so any of the assets held in the
Dow treasury any smart contracts set the
Dow treasury administrates that is what
token holders have direct control over
but then there's all this other stuff
like you know roadmap or things like a
code of conduct that I guess
theoretically we could post that on
chain but right now we're not it's not
posted on chain so token holders of
course can control any of the
transactions that the Dow treasury can
execute but also you know like we just
did a roadmap proposal um just because
that's the type of thing that we want
the community to weigh in on basically
um even though theoretically like the
product works from the engineering
workstream could go execute on other
stuff the community has now expressed
their interest in what they want they
have had the chance to liberate it and
give feedback on it and now we're all
aligned on a community saying this is
this is the roadmap that we're all
focused on and to your second question
because ultimately in order to get
renewed these work streams are beholden
to the community it probably wouldn't be
in their best interest to go against
what they know as the community's will
there's kind of that nice game theory
that keeps everyone aligned but there
are ultimately like it is up to these
these work streams so the community
delegates power to work streams and I
guess I can take a step back and just
really quickly explain what a work
stream is a work stream is a sub-dial
for shape fifth dial anybody can propose
it and typically these work streams are
you know have a specific Mission goals
and kpis that the community can use to
measure their success and they request a
budget and if the community chooses to
approve a work stream then that works
room gets created in their subdab so
they have their own Treasury and they're
able to allocate that treasury
autonomously without going back to the
community to get permission for every
single day-to-day decision this is I
think a critical piece of shapeshift's
design that enables us to move so
quickly as a decentralized community
because you can imagine especially for
Dows at stale you know if they have more
than a dozen contributors how
overwhelming it would be to the
governance process every time someone
needed to get paid not required a
proposal to the Dow so instead the
communities approved these work streams
work streams are able to move quickly
and control their own budgets and then
if the work stream has ever really
misbehaving or doing a bad job or even
like yeah malicious in an extreme
example the community does have the
ultimate Authority and has the ability
to cancel that work stream to revoke the
rest of their budget to appoint the
newer extreme leader so ultimately the
community is on top but these work
streams and we have product work stream
engineering work streams Growth work
stream operations work streams they
enable us to get stuff done quickly and
they these work streams typically have
more context to make informed decisions
on these day-to-day decisions whereas a
community is an average token holder if
they able to measure the success of a
work stream at the higher level in
making form decisions on whether or not
this work stream should get renewed or
should get canceled better than they are
able to weigh on day-to-day decisions so
work teams work really well for us yeah
cool full disclosure uh I'm a yes vote
for the first half of 2023 roadmap
proposal uh so just to make sure I
understand like the work stream could be
maybe some former developers that were
at shapeshift HQ the centralized version
who came over to the Dow and they wanted
to build out the actual platform the app
that users use to interface but it could
also be like me somebody who says I want
to make a shape-shift dow podcast and I
want to apply for funding for the first
quarter I'll release x amount of
episodes and interview why amount of or
why type of guests so is that kind of
like the way that work streams are
created is by somebody proposing them
and then they're voted in exactly right
and anybody is welcome to come or post a
work stream we do have a kind of a
special project so typically to date the
way that work streams have kind of been
conceived is that they will be more for
like these ongoing initiatives like
engineering or product operations but we
do have a special projects set up in
Colony which is what we use to manage
the treasuries of these uh work streams
it's also possible that it would fall
within special projects but it's still
kind of the same idea cool so kind of
like uh shifting gears a little bit the
work streams are really cool because you
have people proposing what they want to
work on and I guess people are like
self-selecting which stream they want to
participate in and we also alluded
earlier that the pandemic kind of showed
that people can work autonomously
asynchronously on their own times from
their own rooms but one of the things
I've noticed since I've gone full time
being a asynchronous content creator is
that in an office you have people kind
kind of like getting around the water
cooler sharing ideas and cool Concepts
and so sometimes you might have this
creative process that people experience
just because they share the same meat
space together and shapeshift doesn't
have that anymore so you guys recently
did uh the Dow wow and now that uh
shapeshift Dao is completely
decentralized this was an opportunity
for people to fly to a central location
and kind of get together and brainstorm
the future for the shapeshift Dao so
could you just share a little bit about
what the Dow wow was how many people
attended how was the event structured
things like that happy too the devil was
freaking awesome we're planning to do
this every year to your point it's very
important to get everybody together in
Meet space when you're working virtually
something that I really miss about being
in an office
so the Dowell was this opportunity for
us to get we had over 25 foxes come
together in real life we also recorded
and streamed it all to foxes who
couldn't make it in person or anyone
around the world who wanted to attend it
was the stream was completely open it
was interesting because I think
different community members had kind of
a different idea of like what the main
goal of the Dow wow was but to me it was
mainly to get everyone together and to
look at you know the past year year and
a half of the Dow see what had gone well
what didn't go well and what can we do
better and also just get aligned on the
roadmap for 2023 in the vision and give
space for everybody to propose other
ideas or to give feedback and we
accomplished all of that over the course
of a week also we just had a really good
time too so it was like working all day
9 A.M to 5 p.m and then at night we'd
hang out and bond and party and then
wake up and get right back to it so as I
mentioned we started with a retro uh
what went well it didn't go well what
could we have done better we talked
about strategy we kind of we talked
about vision and and again gave room for
like what is a vision in a Dao it's kind
of the collective of every Community
member's Vision I'm going to give space
for people to propose kind of
alternative directions especially
because we had just gone to this
Milestone where we hit parity uh which
had been the go the Dow's Focus for the
first year and so now we're asking like
what are the most valuable things for us
to focus on next so we talked about
roadmap as well let's see we had a
debate around fees which was really
interesting and back to your question
around what community members control
whether or not to enable fees right now
shape is completely free we don't add
any fees on top of any of the services
or protocols we integrate but there's a
proposal working its way through the
pipeline to start experimenting with
some fees and I will be I'm a strong
proponent against adding fees on top on
shape shift and then the final session
that we had and I'm sure I missed a
couple was smart goals and so we wanted
to make sure that we left the Dow wow
with some specific measurable attainable
realistic or relevant and time-bound uh
goals and we have a meeting and week to
bring that full circle and finalize
those goals that were proposed at the
dawa I remember when I was first just a
token holder before I was working in the
space I was just like number go up and
that's all I care about but since coming
into the space going to these in-person
events the bonding time is completely
memorable and it's something that's
Irreplaceable so do you have any kind of
like uh amazing moments that you were
like this is where I need to be when you
were hosting the Dow wow oh man well
it's really cool to see people in real
life for the first time they've been
interacting with a bunch online and
you've never met in person so that was
really cool and there were a number of
contributors who not only had I yeah
never seen a person I'd never seen a
video of their face because they they
work in private so that was freaking
awesome Eric came by one day one day and
night and hung out with everybody so
always super cool for also these new Dow
contributors to actually get to meet
Eric and hang out with him we pop some
Trump wine that he had collected and
then the last night we had a karaoke
session and so that was super cool and
that just shows like how close and
tight-knit of a bunny experience it was
the fact that people are comfortable
enough to get up and sing and of course
none of us are good singers but we felt
comfortable enough to do it and then the
last thing I'll say I didn't mention
this but between each one of those
sessions we did appreciations and asks
so we paired up everyone had the
opportunity to pair up with everybody
who was there in person and tell the
other what they appreciated about them
and also if there was anything they
needed or thought could help improve the
working relationship there was a safe
space to give that and it was so cool
just to see like everybody was so
comfortable and willing to give feedback
and receive feedback which shows like
how much trust we have and that was so
cool to see like the idea that you don't
need a legal entity you don't need a
centralization to do this here you can
have people from all around the world
who are aligned with the same vision who
can coordinate they can self-select to
come out and fly out to Colorado to get
together and um feel comfortable giving
each other that feedback like that made
me feel so good and like just more
confident and more bullish on shapeshift
than I've ever been before yeah that's
awesome were you noticing that your
community of Builders is is really
Global was it mostly like a western
audience from the US what was kind of
like the composition of not only the
people who attended but also the people
that you know listened to the streams as
well I'd say most of the attendees were
from the United States partly because it
was easier and cheaper for them to fly
out there but we definitely had
contributors all the way from Australia
and from the Czech Republic flying in
that was awesome to see and then tuning
in absolutely we had a very Global
audience tuning in and that is one thing
that is doing much better at the Dow
than it ever was at centralized
shapeshift again like not only do we
want to have people in the office before
but we had tried to kind of grow
communities and acquire more users
globally at centralized shapeshift and
always really struggled to do it but in
the Dow now it's working much better and
we have communities and all around the
world in multiple different languages
they translate the app into different
languages now users can come in and
actually We join the community and speak
with you know their fellows in in a
language that they're familiar with and
attend Community calls and Portuguese
and it's super cool to see so Props to
the globalization were extreme because
that is definitely one thing that's
working much better in the Dow than it
was at centralized shape shift awesome
so wrapping up what are some of the next
steps for the shapeshift dial or for Fox
Foundation that you're particularly
excited about are there any cool
implementations on the way or or what
does that look like yeah we're really
thinking about how can we be the best
some of the features that I'm excited
about over the next three months are
expanding to more evm zones storm chain
Savers Vault so you'll be able to earn
yield on your native Bitcoin really
excited about that one displaying D5
positions and I think this is what can
make shapeshift the best way to view
your portfolio so not only being able to
see all of your D5 positions on ethereum
along with all of your assets on
ethereum but also in that same dashboard
being able to see your Bitcoin and your
Cosmos really think that once we're
displaying the D5 positions which not
only do you think we can have a better
ux than what's out there and design it
better but just be the most
comprehensive view of your portfolio
objectively that's a really popular use
case and um something that we're behind
on because we haven't we're not
displaying the D5 positions yet but once
we catch up on that I think we can be
the best we haven't talked about RKO but
if you guys have heard of fox chain
um it's now been renamed to RKO this has
been in the works for over a year now in
partnership with coinbase cloud and it's
basically like a decentralized inferior
for all the chains so this is the I
mentioned earlier like we launched the
new version of shapeshift that version
the front end is decentralized it's
hosted on ipfs but the back end is still
centralized blockchain infrastructure so
shapeshifts always run these nodes the
foundation's now running from these
nodes but we also have a Community
member running this node infrastructure
once RKO goes live that will be your
archaeo is like I said a decentralized
inferior and it will basically replace
the back end and at that point the
shapeshift app will be completely
decentralized accessible to anyone in
the world censorship resistant
completely Unstoppable so I'm really
excited about that there's more stuff
I'm excited about but those are probably
so they're probably some of the biggest
ones and I'll stop there but yeah it's
basically like so much cool stuff on the
road map the vision's really finally
coming together it's a big Vision that
we've been working towards for years but
the pieces are finally coming together
yeah that's super cool and is archaeo a
work stream or is that kind of a
separate entity of a group of people who
came together to build it it started as
a work stream and now it's kind of
transitioning from a work stream to its
own community and once it goes live it
will be separate from the shape-shift
dial so we kind of helped incubate it
and fund a lot of the research and
initial development and then archio is
going to be launching estimated Q2 2023
as a cosmos IBC chain there will be an
airdrop and the details for that are all
published you can see that proposal and
shape shift Dao and um once that goes
live again safety fat will be completely
decentralized but argue will be its own
community that we're friends with super
cool like I said earlier huge fan of
shapeshift since day one of my crypto
journey into the space it sounds like we
both kind of got our start from the OG
pre-kyc shapeshift application so it's
awesome to be able to chat with you and
hear about your journey and all the
things that excite you and all the cool
things that you guys are working on so
if people want to keep up to date with
you or follow along with the project
what's the best way that they can reach
out or just simply follow well
definitely follow shapeshift on Twitter
and jump in our Discord discord.gg
shapeshift and if you want to follow me
I'm at Willie Ogo on shapeshift
w-i-l-o-y-o-g-o awesome Willie always a
pleasure to chat with you in Meet space
and virtually for the podcasts I want to
thank you so much for sharing your time
with us today it's really cool to be
able to talk with you about all this
really awesome stuff and to be able to
share it with the listeners of the smart
economy podcast so I really appreciate
it appreciate you too Dylan thanks so
much for having me man cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation it was really cool to learn
about the early days of Willie's second
startup and how its product Market Fit
made it a perfect Aqua hire for the team
to onboard to the then centralized
shapeshift it was also really
interesting to learn more about the D5
protocols shapeshift added to the dex's
back end and how that allowed shapeshift
to come back to its roots and it was
great to learn more about how the
leaders of the Dao seek to create a
cohesive Community amongst its Builders
and position shapeshift to become a
decentralized success on that note I
want to thank you so much for taking the
time to listen to the smart economy
podcast if you liked what you heard and
want to support the show please keep Neo
news today in mind when voting for your
Neo Council representative as part of
Neo's governance process we appreciate
you and look forward to catching you
next time